How to use git via command line .

To use Git via the command line, you must first install it and then use a series of terminal commands—such as 
git init to start a repo, git add to stage changes, and git commit to save them—to manage your project versions.

But with new git for window, we don't need to do direct command, we can commit change with it instead !

However, it still very useful to know the command to do so.
1. Setting Up & Startinggit init: 
Initializes a new, empty Git repository in your current folder.

git clone <url>: Downloads an existing repository and all its history to your computer.

git config --global user.name "Name": Sets your name for all your projects

2. Basic Workflow
git add <file>: Stages a file for commit.

git commit -m "message": Commits the staged changes with a message describing the update.

git status: Shows the status of your working directory and staging area.

git log: Displays the commit history for the repository.

3. Branching and Merging

git branch <branch-name>: Creates a new branch.

git checkout <branch-name>: Switches to the specified branch.

git merge <branch-name>: Merges the specified branch into the current branch.

4. Remote Repositories

git remote add origin <url>: Connects your local repository to a remote server.

git push -u origin <branch-name>: Pushes your commits to the remote repository.

git pull: Fetches and merges changes from the remote repository to your local branch.

5. Additional Commands

git diff: Shows the differences between your working directory and the last commit.

git reset --hard HEAD: Resets your working directory to the last commit, discarding all changes.

git stash: Temporarily saves changes that are not ready to be committed.

git stash pop: Applies the stashed changes back to your working directory.

These are just a few of the many commands available in Git. As you become more comfortable with Git, you can explore additional features and commands to further enhance your version control workflow.

